packages/ui/src/button/README.md, before:

# Buttons

A button can be rendered either as a `<button>` (using [`<Button>`](#button)) or as an `<a>` (using [`<LinkButton>`](#linkbutton).

## `<Button>`

Buttons have support for [commands][command], via the `command` prop. When a button has a command, the `onClick` prop is set by the command. The command can also disable the button.

Buttons forward their ref to the underlying element, which is a `<button>`.

### Examples

```jsx
import {Button} from '@condict/ui';

// A simple button with a label.
<Button label='Show me what you got' onClick={...}/>

// A link button with rendered children.
<Button href={aboutUri} target='_blank'>
  <InfoIcon/> About the competition
</Button>

// A slim, secondary button that mixes rendered content and label.
// The label is exposed to assistive technologies, like screen readers.
<Button slim intent='secondary' label='Undo' onClick={...}>
  <UndoIcon/>
</Button>

// A minimal button that performs a dangerous action
<Button minimal intent='danger' onClick={...}>
  Delete the whole thing
</Button>

// A submit button. Since it submits a form when clicked, it does
// not require an onClick handler.
<Button type='submit' label='Save'/>
```

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `className` | string | `''` | One or more class names that are forwarded to the underlying element. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the button is disabled. This prop has no effect on link buttons. If the button has a [command][], the command can also disable the button. |
| `minimal` | boolean | `false` | If true, applies minimal styling to the button. Basically, it removes the background. |
| `intent` | one of `'general'`, `'accent'`, `'danger'` | `'general'` | Determines what intent styling to give the button. |
| `slim` | boolean | `false` | If true, reduce the button's padding, to make it fit better alongside text inputs, selects, and similar. |
| `label` | string | `''` | A string value that contains the button's text. If used together with children, this value defines the button's accessible label. |
| `type` | one of `'button'`, `'submit'` | `'button'` | Determines the button's type. Submit buttons are used in forms. This prop has no effect on link buttons. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the button. The command overrides the `disabled` and `onClick` props. |
| `onClick` | function | no-op | Attaches the `click` event handler to the button. If the button has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `children` | node | `null` | The content of the button. If used together with `label`, this becomes the visible content of the button. |

All other props are forwarded to the underlying element, which is a [styled component][styled-components] containing a `<button>`.

## `<LinkButton>`

Link buttons have support for [commands][command], via the `command` prop. When a button has a command, the `onClick` prop is set by the command. Additionally, although link buttons cannot be disabled, when an attached command is disabled, the `onClick` prop is set to a no-op that cancels the event.

Link buttons forward their ref to the underlying element, which is an `<a>`.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `href` | string | _none; required_ | The URL that the link button points to. |
| `className` | string | `''` | One or more class names that are forwarded to the underlying element. |
| `minimal` | boolean | `false` | If true, applies minimal styling to the button. Basically, it removes the background. |
| `intent` | one of `'general'`, `'accent'`, `'danger'` | `'general'` | Determines what intent styling to give the button. |
| `slim` | boolean | `false` | If true, reduce the button's padding, to make it fit better alongside text inputs, selects, and similar. |
| `label` | string | `''` | A string value that contains the button's text. If used together with children, this value defines the button's accessible label. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the button. The command overrides the `onClick` prop. |
| `onClick` | function | no-op | Attaches the `click` event handler to the button. If the button has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `children` | node | `null` | The content of the button. If used together with `label`, this becomes the visible content of the button. |

All other props are forwarded to the underlying element, which is a [styled component][styled-components] containing an `<a>`.

[command]: ../command
[styled-components]: https://www.styled-components.com/

Commit message:

ui: Add support for borderless buttons
These light up the entire button when hovered or pressed. Normally the
border is not highlighted. This makes it much easier to place the button
on backgrounds with the same colour as the button, where you want the
entire button to light up.

I also cleaned up the button styles a touch; there was far too much
repetition. And I made sure to use borderless styles where appropriate
(except in the app; that'll be a small separate change).

packages/ui/src/button/README.md, after:

# Buttons

A button can be rendered either as a `<button>` (using [`<Button>`](#button)) or as an `<a>` (using [`<LinkButton>`](#linkbutton).

## `<Button>`

Buttons have support for [commands][command], via the `command` prop. When a button has a command, the `onClick` prop is set by the command. The command can also disable the button.

Buttons forward their ref to the underlying element, which is a `<button>`.

### Examples

```jsx
import {Button} from '@condict/ui';

// A simple button with a label.
<Button label='Show me what you got' onClick={...}/>

// A link button with rendered children.
<Button href={aboutUri} target='_blank'>
  <InfoIcon/> About the competition
</Button>

// A slim, secondary button that mixes rendered content and label.
// The label is exposed to assistive technologies, like screen readers.
<Button slim intent='secondary' label='Undo' onClick={...}>
  <UndoIcon/>
</Button>

// A minimal button that performs a dangerous action
<Button minimal intent='danger' onClick={...}>
  Delete the whole thing
</Button>

// A submit button. Since it submits a form when clicked, it does
// not require an onClick handler.
<Button type='submit' label='Save'/>
```

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `className` | string | `''` | One or more class names that are forwarded to the underlying element. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the button is disabled. This prop has no effect on link buttons. If the button has a [command][], the command can also disable the button. |
| `minimal` | boolean | `false` | If true, applies minimal styling to the button. Basically, it removes the background. |
| `intent` | one of `'general'`, `'accent'`, `'danger'` | `'general'` | Determines what intent styling to give the button. |
| `slim` | boolean | `false` | If true, reduce the button's padding, to make it fit better alongside text inputs, selects, and similar. |
| `borderless` | boolean | `false` | If true, the entire button lights up when hovered and pressed. By default, the border stays the same. Borderless styling is used when the button is placed on a background with the same colour as the button. |
| `label` | string | `''` | A string value that contains the button's text. If used together with children, this value defines the button's accessible label. |
| `type` | one of `'button'`, `'submit'` | `'button'` | Determines the button's type. Submit buttons are used in forms. This prop has no effect on link buttons. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the button. The command overrides the `disabled` and `onClick` props. |
| `onClick` | function | no-op | Attaches the `click` event handler to the button. If the button has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `children` | node | `null` | The content of the button. If used together with `label`, this becomes the visible content of the button. |

All other props are forwarded to the underlying element, which is a [styled component][styled-components] containing a `<button>`.

## `<LinkButton>`

Link buttons have support for [commands][command], via the `command` prop. When a button has a command, the `onClick` prop is set by the command. Additionally, although link buttons cannot be disabled, when an attached command is disabled, the `onClick` prop is set to a no-op that cancels the event.

Link buttons forward their ref to the underlying element, which is an `<a>`.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `href` | string | _none; required_ | The URL that the link button points to. |
| `className` | string | `''` | One or more class names that are forwarded to the underlying element. |
| `minimal` | boolean | `false` | If true, applies minimal styling to the button. Basically, it removes the background. |
| `intent` | one of `'general'`, `'accent'`, `'danger'` | `'general'` | Determines what intent styling to give the button. |
| `slim` | boolean | `false` | If true, reduce the button's padding, to make it fit better alongside text inputs, selects, and similar. |
| `borderless` | boolean | `false` | If true, the entire button lights up when hovered and pressed. By default, the border stays the same. Borderless styling is used when the button is placed on a background with the same colour as the button. |
| `label` | string | `''` | A string value that contains the button's text. If used together with children, this value defines the button's accessible label. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the button. The command overrides the `onClick` prop. |
| `onClick` | function | no-op | Attaches the `click` event handler to the button. If the button has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `children` | node | `null` | The content of the button. If used together with `label`, this becomes the visible content of the button. |

All other props are forwarded to the underlying element, which is a [styled component][styled-components] containing an `<a>`.

[command]: ../command
[styled-components]: https://www.styled-components.com/
