packages/ui/src/menu/README.md, before:

# Menus

* [Examples](#examples)
* [`<Menu>`](#menu)
* [`<Menu.Item>`](#menuitem)
* [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem)
* [`<Menu.Separator>`](#menuseparator)
* [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager)
* [`<MenuTrigger>`](#menutrigger)

---

The heart of a menu is the [`<Menu>`](#menu) component, which contains any number of menu items and nested submenus. In order to work, a menu must be the descendant of a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager). Lastly, the [`<MenuTrigger>`](#menutrigger) component helps to manage individual menus and their triggers.

Working with menus can be a bit fiddly. Read the documentation carefully to ensure correct implementation.

## Examples

```jsx
import {Menu, MenuTrigger, Placement, Button, Shortcut} from '@condict/ui';

// A single-level menu attached to a button.
const SettingsShortcut = Shortcut.parse(...);
<MenuTrigger
  menu={
    <Menu>
      <Menu.Item
        label='Reset value'
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Item
        label='Delete field'
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Separator/>
      <Menu.CheckItem
        label='Enabled'
        checked={...}
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Item
        label='More settings...'
        shortcut={SettingsShortcut}
        onActivate={...}
      />
    </Menu>
  }
>
  <Button label='Open menu'/>
</MenuTrigger>

// A menu with submenus and a custom placement. Menu items use commands
// to implement their functionality.
// (This menu needs a MenuTrigger or MenuManager around it.)
<Menu placement={Placement.RIGHT_BOTTOM}>
  <Menu.Item icon={<CutIcon/>} label='Cut' command='cut'/>
  <Menu.Item icon={<CopyIcon/>} label='Copy' command='copy'/>
  <Menu.Item icon={<PasteIcon/>} label='Paste' command='paste'/>
  <Menu.Item label='Paste special'>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as plain text' command='pastePlain'/>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as image' command='pasteImage'/>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as raw bytes' command='pasteRaw'/>
  </Menu.Item>
  <Menu.Separator/>
  <Menu.Item label='Undo' command='undo'/>
  <Menu.Item label='Redo' command='undo'/>
  <Menu.Separator/>
  <Menu.Item label='Select all' command='selectAll'/>
</Menu>

// A menu with a radio group. The group has an accessible name.
// (This menu needs a MenuTrigger or MenuManager around it.)
<Menu>
  <div role='group' aria-label='Text alignment'>
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align left'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align center'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align right'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
  </div>
</Menu>
```

## `<Menu>`

This component defines a menu – that is, a list of items and possibly nested submenus. This component is _not_ a menu bar; it's only the menu itself.

A `<Menu>` must be the descendant of a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager). Attempting to mount a `<Menu>` outside of a `<MenuManager>` will cause an error to be thrown.

Menus are rendered using [portals][portal], and as such do not add any DOM elements to their parents.

The `<Menu>` component does not forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | string | `undefined` | The value of the ID attribute attached to the menu. This needs to be provided for the `aria-owns` attribute on the element that owns the menu. |
| `name` | string | `undefined` | The name of the menu, which is exposed to assistive technologies. |
| `placement` | [Placement](#placement) | `Placement.BELOW_LEFT` | The placement of the menu, relative to its parent. See more under [Placement](#placement). |
| `parentRef` | ref | `undefined` | A ref to the element that the menu is placed relative to. Note that this value is a ref object, like the ones returned by `React.createRef` and the `useRef` hook. The ref _must_ contain a visible HTML element when the menu is opened; otherwise, the menu will not be positioned correctly. |
| `children` | node | _none; required_ | The items of the menu, usually some combination of [`<Menu.Item>`](#menuitem), [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem) and [`<Menu.Separator>`](#menuseparator). The menu will render any elements as children, but only the three components just mentioned will be recognised as menu items. Note that they will be recognised even as indirect descendants, i.e., if nested inside other elements. |

Additional props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

### Placement

The `Placement` type (from `@condict/ui`) is an enumeration of the following values:

* `Placement.ABOVE_LEFT`: menu is above the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's left edge.
* `Placement.ABOVE_RIGHT`: menu is above the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's right edge.
* `Placement.BELOW_LEFT`: menu is below the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's left edge.
* `Placement.BELOW_RIGHT`: menu is below the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's right edge.
* `Placement.LEFT_TOP`: menu is to the left of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's top edge.
* `Placement.LEFT_BOTTOM`: menu is to the left of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's bottom edge.
* `Placement.RIGHT_TOP`: menu is to the right of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's top edge.
* `Placement.RIGHT_BOTTOM`: menu is to the right of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's bottom edge.

The following picture illustrates the available placements:

![Placements](./placement.png)

## `<Menu.Item>`

The `<Menu.Item>` component represents an activatable menu item. If children are passed to the component, they will be placed inside a submenu of the item. You can attach a [command][] to a menu item, which overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props.

When an item has a submenu, note the following:

* The item _should not_ have a shortcut. If the item has a command, its shortcut, if any, _is_ shown.
* The `onActivate` prop is _not_ called when the menu item is clicked or the submenu opens. Likewise, if the item has a command, it is not executed.
* The `disabled` prop _is_ honoured, even if it comes from an attached command.

To define a checkable menu item (checkbox or radio item), use [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem).

The `<Menu.Item>` component forwards its ref to the outer element (a `<div>`).

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | string | _none; required_ | The text label of the menu item. |
| `icon` | node | `null` | The icon of the menu item, shown before the label. The menu item is specifically designed to work with icons from the [mdi-react][] package; other icon sets will not be correctly styled. |
| `shortcut` | [Shortcut][] or [ShortcutGroup][] | `null` | The shortcut associated with the menu item. This value is used for display and accessibility only; it does not attach any behaviour. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is disabled. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the menu item. The command overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props. |
| `onActivate` | function | no-op | Event handler function for when the menu item is activated. It receives no arguments, and the return value is ignored. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. This function is not invoked on items with submenus. |
| `children` | node | `undefined` | If present, contains the items of a submenu attached to this menu item. Note that this prop takes the _items_ of the submenu, not a `<Menu>` element. It takes the same children as the [`<Menu>`](#menu) component. Menu items with submenus should not have a shortcut. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

## `<Menu.CheckItem>`

The `<Menu.CheckItem>` component represents a checkable menu item. It can be either a checkbox or a radio menu item. A group of related radio menu items should be placed inside an element with `role="group"` for accessibility.

Checkable menu items cannot have a submenu. Any children passed to the component will be ignored.

Checkable menu items do _not_ render an underlying `<input>` and so cannot be submitted as part of a form.

The `<Menu.CheckItem>` component forwards its ref to the outer element (a `<div>`).

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | string | _none; required_ | The text label of the menu item. |
| `icon` | node | `null` | The icon of the menu item, shown before the label. The menu item is specifically designed to work with icons from the [mdi-react][] package; other icon sets will not be correctly styled. |
| `shortcut` | [Shortcut][] or [ShortcutGroup][] | `null` | The shortcut associated with the menu item. This value is used for display and accessibility only; it does not attach any behaviour. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `checked` | boolean | `false` | Determines whether the menu item is checked. |
| `radio` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is drawn as a radio button instead of a checkbox. Radio menu items should be placed inside an element with `role="group"` for accessibility. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is disabled. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the menu item. The command overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props. |
| `onActivate` | function | no-op | Event handler function for when the menu item is activated. It receives no arguments, and the return value is ignored. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

## `<Menu.Separator>`

A non-interactive horizontal line that separates groups of related menu items. It should not occur as the first or last item of a menu.

The `<Menu.Separator>` component does _not_ forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

None. Any props passed to the component are ignored.

## `<MenuManager>`

This is an uncontrolled component that manages a set of menus. It attaches global event listeners to handle mouse movements, keyboard input, and other events required to implement the menu tree.

The `<MenuManager>` component exposes an imperative API for opening menus; see [the `open` method](#menumanagerprototypeopen). To access the API, take a ref to the menu manager.

This component does not render a DOM node of its own; it simply returns its child. Any menu to be managed by the component must be a child of the menu manager, as the manager relies on context values to communicate with its menus.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `onClose` | function | no-op | A function that is called when the root menu is closed. The root menu is the one passed to [the `open` method](#menumanagerprototypeopen). |
| `children` | node | `undefined` | A single React renderable. The menu manager can only manage menus that appear as descendants of it; hence, a manager's children should include a [`<Menu>`](#menu) somewhere. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element, because a menu manager has no elements of its own.

### `MenuManager.prototype.open`

> `open(rootMenu: Menu)`

This imperative method opens the given [`Menu`](#menu). If the manager already has an open menu, this method does nothing. To get a `Menu` value, take a ref to the menu.

There is no corresponding `close` method. Menus can only be closed by user interaction, or by unmounting the menu manager. To be notified when the root menu closes, attach an `onClose` prop.

## `<MenuTrigger>`

The `<MenuTrigger>` component is used to attach a menu to a component. It is currently quite an inflexible component, and several requirements must be met for correct operation. In practice it is only really usable with something that behaves like a button. Using [`React.cloneElement`][cloneelement], the menu trigger does the following:

* Attaches a unique, random `id` to the menu;
* Attaches a ref to the trigger element (any existing ref will still be called/updated);
* Passes the trigger element ref into the menu's `parentRef` prop (hence, the menu is positioned relative to the trigger);
* Adds an `onClick` prop to the trigger element, which opens the menu (any existing `onClick` handler will _not_ be called);
* Adds the `aria-owns` and `aria-haspopup="menu"` props to the trigger element; and
* Wraps the menu in a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager).

The end result is that the trigger element opens the menu when clicked, and it reports correct accessibility information about the presence of a menu.

For finer control of menus, you must implement some or all of the above yourself.

The `<MenuTrigger>` component does _not_ forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `menu` | element | _none; required_ | Any React element (but not other renderable, such as string, array or fragment) whose ref resolves to a [`<Menu>`](#menu). Note that you _can_ use a custom component here, as long the ref is forwarded to a `<Menu>`. |
| `onToggle` | function | no-op | A function that is called when the menu opens or closes. This can be used to track the state of the menu in the parent component. It receives a single boolean argument which is `true` if the menu just opened, `false` if it just closed. The return value is ignored. |
| `children` | element | _none; required_ | A single React element (but not other renderable) whose ref resolves to a DOM element. This becomes the menu trigger. The element must support an `onClick` event handler, along with the `aria-owns` and `aria-haspopup` props. The menu is positioned relative to the element in the ref. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

[mdi-react]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/mdi-react
[portal]: https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html
[cloneelement]: https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html#cloneelement
[command]: ../command
[shortcut]: ../command#shortcut
[shortcutgroup]: ../command#shortcutgroup

Commit message:

ui: Enable placing menus relative to non-elements
By letting menus be placed relative to a DOMRect or arbitrary point, we
add support for context menus further on, i.e. placing the menu relative
to the mouse pointer.

packages/ui/src/menu/README.md, after:

# Menus

* [Examples](#examples)
* [`<Menu>`](#menu)
* [`<Menu.Item>`](#menuitem)
* [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem)
* [`<Menu.Separator>`](#menuseparator)
* [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager)
* [`<MenuTrigger>`](#menutrigger)

---

The heart of a menu is the [`<Menu>`](#menu) component, which contains any number of menu items and nested submenus. In order to work, a menu must be the descendant of a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager). Lastly, the [`<MenuTrigger>`](#menutrigger) component helps to manage individual menus and their triggers.

Working with menus can be a bit fiddly. Read the documentation carefully to ensure correct implementation.

## Examples

```jsx
import {Menu, MenuTrigger, Placement, Button, Shortcut} from '@condict/ui';

// A single-level menu attached to a button.
const SettingsShortcut = Shortcut.parse(...);
<MenuTrigger
  menu={
    <Menu>
      <Menu.Item
        label='Reset value'
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Item
        label='Delete field'
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Separator/>
      <Menu.CheckItem
        label='Enabled'
        checked={...}
        onActivate={...}
      />
      <Menu.Item
        label='More settings...'
        shortcut={SettingsShortcut}
        onActivate={...}
      />
    </Menu>
  }
>
  <Button label='Open menu'/>
</MenuTrigger>

// A menu with submenus and a custom placement. Menu items use commands
// to implement their functionality.
// (This menu needs a MenuTrigger or MenuManager around it.)
<Menu placement={Placement.RIGHT_BOTTOM}>
  <Menu.Item icon={<CutIcon/>} label='Cut' command='cut'/>
  <Menu.Item icon={<CopyIcon/>} label='Copy' command='copy'/>
  <Menu.Item icon={<PasteIcon/>} label='Paste' command='paste'/>
  <Menu.Item label='Paste special'>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as plain text' command='pastePlain'/>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as image' command='pasteImage'/>
    <Menu.Item label='Paste as raw bytes' command='pasteRaw'/>
  </Menu.Item>
  <Menu.Separator/>
  <Menu.Item label='Undo' command='undo'/>
  <Menu.Item label='Redo' command='undo'/>
  <Menu.Separator/>
  <Menu.Item label='Select all' command='selectAll'/>
</Menu>

// A menu with a radio group. The group has an accessible name.
// (This menu needs a MenuTrigger or MenuManager around it.)
<Menu>
  <div role='group' aria-label='Text alignment'>
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align left'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align center'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
    <Menu.CheckItem
      radio
      label='Align right'
      checked={...}
      onActivate={...}
    />
  </div>
</Menu>
```

## `<Menu>`

This component defines a menu – that is, a list of items and possibly nested submenus. This component is _not_ a menu bar; it's only the menu itself.

A `<Menu>` must be the descendant of a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager). Attempting to mount a `<Menu>` outside of a `<MenuManager>` will cause an error to be thrown.

Menus are rendered using [portals][portal], and as such do not add any DOM elements to their parents.

The `<Menu>` component does not forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | string | `undefined` | The value of the ID attribute attached to the menu. This needs to be provided for the `aria-owns` attribute on the element that owns the menu. |
| `name` | string | `undefined` | The name of the menu, which is exposed to assistive technologies. |
| `placement` | [Placement](#placement) | `Placement.BELOW_LEFT` | The placement of the menu, relative to its parent. See more under [Placement](#placement). |
| `parentRef` | ref | `undefined` | A ref to the element, `DOMRect` or point that the menu is placed relative to. Note that this value is a ref object, like the ones returned by `React.createRef` and the `useRef` hook. When the menu is opened, this ref _must_ contain a visible HTML element, a `DOMRect` or a point (as an object with an `x` and `y` property); otherwise, the menu will not be positioned correctly. If this ref contains a `DOMRect` or a point, it will be treated as screen coordinates. |
| `children` | node | _none; required_ | The items of the menu, usually some combination of [`<Menu.Item>`](#menuitem), [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem) and [`<Menu.Separator>`](#menuseparator). The menu will render any elements as children, but only the three components just mentioned will be recognised as menu items. Note that they will be recognised even as indirect descendants, i.e., if nested inside other elements. |

Additional props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

### Placement

The `Placement` type (from `@condict/ui`) is an enumeration of the following values:

* `Placement.ABOVE_LEFT`: menu is above the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's left edge.
* `Placement.ABOVE_RIGHT`: menu is above the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's right edge.
* `Placement.BELOW_LEFT`: menu is below the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's left edge.
* `Placement.BELOW_RIGHT`: menu is below the parent, horizontally aligned with the parent's right edge.
* `Placement.LEFT_TOP`: menu is to the left of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's top edge.
* `Placement.LEFT_BOTTOM`: menu is to the left of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's bottom edge.
* `Placement.RIGHT_TOP`: menu is to the right of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's top edge.
* `Placement.RIGHT_BOTTOM`: menu is to the right of the parent, vertically aligned with the parent's bottom edge.

The following picture illustrates the available placements:

![Placements](./placement.png)

## `<Menu.Item>`

The `<Menu.Item>` component represents an activatable menu item. If children are passed to the component, they will be placed inside a submenu of the item. You can attach a [command][] to a menu item, which overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props.

When an item has a submenu, note the following:

* The item _should not_ have a shortcut. If the item has a command, its shortcut, if any, _is_ shown.
* The `onActivate` prop is _not_ called when the menu item is clicked or the submenu opens. Likewise, if the item has a command, it is not executed.
* The `disabled` prop _is_ honoured, even if it comes from an attached command.

To define a checkable menu item (checkbox or radio item), use [`<Menu.CheckItem>`](#menucheckitem).

The `<Menu.Item>` component forwards its ref to the outer element (a `<div>`).

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | string | _none; required_ | The text label of the menu item. |
| `icon` | node | `null` | The icon of the menu item, shown before the label. The menu item is specifically designed to work with icons from the [mdi-react][] package; other icon sets will not be correctly styled. |
| `shortcut` | [Shortcut][] or [ShortcutGroup][] | `null` | The shortcut associated with the menu item. This value is used for display and accessibility only; it does not attach any behaviour. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is disabled. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the menu item. The command overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props. |
| `onActivate` | function | no-op | Event handler function for when the menu item is activated. It receives no arguments, and the return value is ignored. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. This function is not invoked on items with submenus. |
| `children` | node | `undefined` | If present, contains the items of a submenu attached to this menu item. Note that this prop takes the _items_ of the submenu, not a `<Menu>` element. It takes the same children as the [`<Menu>`](#menu) component. Menu items with submenus should not have a shortcut. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

## `<Menu.CheckItem>`

The `<Menu.CheckItem>` component represents a checkable menu item. It can be either a checkbox or a radio menu item. A group of related radio menu items should be placed inside an element with `role="group"` for accessibility.

Checkable menu items cannot have a submenu. Any children passed to the component will be ignored.

Checkable menu items do _not_ render an underlying `<input>` and so cannot be submitted as part of a form.

The `<Menu.CheckItem>` component forwards its ref to the outer element (a `<div>`).

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `label` | string | _none; required_ | The text label of the menu item. |
| `icon` | node | `null` | The icon of the menu item, shown before the label. The menu item is specifically designed to work with icons from the [mdi-react][] package; other icon sets will not be correctly styled. |
| `shortcut` | [Shortcut][] or [ShortcutGroup][] | `null` | The shortcut associated with the menu item. This value is used for display and accessibility only; it does not attach any behaviour. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `checked` | boolean | `false` | Determines whether the menu item is checked. |
| `radio` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is drawn as a radio button instead of a checkbox. Radio menu items should be placed inside an element with `role="group"` for accessibility. |
| `disabled` | boolean | `false` | If true, the menu item is disabled. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |
| `command` | string | `null` | Attaches the named [command][] to the menu item. The command overrides the `disabled`, `shortcut` and `onActivate` props. |
| `onActivate` | function | no-op | Event handler function for when the menu item is activated. It receives no arguments, and the return value is ignored. If the menu item has a [command][], this prop is ignored. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

## `<Menu.Separator>`

A non-interactive horizontal line that separates groups of related menu items. It should not occur as the first or last item of a menu.

The `<Menu.Separator>` component does _not_ forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

None. Any props passed to the component are ignored.

## `<MenuManager>`

This is an uncontrolled component that manages a set of menus. It attaches global event listeners to handle mouse movements, keyboard input, and other events required to implement the menu tree.

The `<MenuManager>` component exposes an imperative API for opening menus; see [the `open` method](#menumanagerprototypeopen). To access the API, take a ref to the menu manager.

This component does not render a DOM node of its own; it simply returns its child. Any menu to be managed by the component must be a child of the menu manager, as the manager relies on context values to communicate with its menus.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `onClose` | function | no-op | A function that is called when the root menu is closed. The root menu is the one passed to [the `open` method](#menumanagerprototypeopen). |
| `children` | node | `undefined` | A single React renderable. The menu manager can only manage menus that appear as descendants of it; hence, a manager's children should include a [`<Menu>`](#menu) somewhere. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element, because a menu manager has no elements of its own.

### `MenuManager.prototype.open`

> `open(rootMenu: Menu)`

This imperative method opens the given [`Menu`](#menu). If the manager already has an open menu, this method does nothing. To get a `Menu` value, take a ref to the menu.

There is no corresponding `close` method. Menus can only be closed by user interaction, or by unmounting the menu manager. To be notified when the root menu closes, attach an `onClose` prop.

## `<MenuTrigger>`

The `<MenuTrigger>` component is used to attach a menu to a component. It is currently quite an inflexible component, and several requirements must be met for correct operation. In practice it is only really usable with something that behaves like a button. Using [`React.cloneElement`][cloneelement], the menu trigger does the following:

* Attaches a unique, random `id` to the menu;
* Attaches a ref to the trigger element (any existing ref will still be called/updated);
* Passes the trigger element ref into the menu's `parentRef` prop (hence, the menu is positioned relative to the trigger);
* Adds an `onClick` prop to the trigger element, which opens the menu (any existing `onClick` handler will _not_ be called);
* Adds the `aria-owns` and `aria-haspopup="menu"` props to the trigger element; and
* Wraps the menu in a [`<MenuManager>`](#menumanager).

The end result is that the trigger element opens the menu when clicked, and it reports correct accessibility information about the presence of a menu.

For finer control of menus, you must implement some or all of the above yourself.

The `<MenuTrigger>` component does _not_ forward its ref to any underlying element.

### Props

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `menu` | element | _none; required_ | Any React element (but not other renderable, such as string, array or fragment) whose ref resolves to a [`<Menu>`](#menu). Note that you _can_ use a custom component here, as long the ref is forwarded to a `<Menu>`. |
| `onToggle` | function | no-op | A function that is called when the menu opens or closes. This can be used to track the state of the menu in the parent component. It receives a single boolean argument which is `true` if the menu just opened, `false` if it just closed. The return value is ignored. |
| `children` | element | _none; required_ | A single React element (but not other renderable) whose ref resolves to a DOM element. This becomes the menu trigger. The element must support an `onClick` event handler, along with the `aria-owns` and `aria-haspopup` props. The menu is positioned relative to the element in the ref. |

Other props are _not_ forwarded to any underlying element.

[mdi-react]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/mdi-react
[portal]: https://reactjs.org/docs/portals.html
[cloneelement]: https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html#cloneelement
[command]: ../command
[shortcut]: ../command#shortcut
[shortcutgroup]: ../command#shortcutgroup
